So in last lecture we managed to compile our CSS and minified and loaded in our theme. Let's have some stuff to
deal with before finalizing the styles task. If we inspect element here in the theme and go to the body
tag
where we added some styles. Let's sure if you can see I'm gonna zoom in. So as you can see it has the background
color,
I don't know, pink. It comes from the bundle.css. That is true but it can be misleading.
It would be much better if the file here is the actual SASS that we load the
this bit of CSS in. It would be much better during the development. And to do that we'll use source maps.
Source maps will map your original files with the compiled or minified SASS files.
And this way the browser will understand which original file
this comes from.
So let's Google "gulp sourcemaps".
And let's install it and use it.
So I'm gonna copy its name to type "npm install" and then paste and then "--save-dev".
Now it seems installed. So let's use it.
So in the gulpfile I'm gonna import it. So "import sourcemaps from 'gulp-sourcemaps'".
And then to use it.
It has to be. Ok, So let's go to the documentation. First we type
I'm gonna zoom in  ".pipe(sourcemaps.init())".
And then we add some plugins like the SASS the minification plugins. And then after that we add "sourcemaps.write()"
As mentioned here all the plugins between the init and the write should be supported.
Should have you know support it, for gulp-sourcemaps.
So here is a list for all the supported plugins.
And if we scroll, we'll find the clean-css and the sass plugins supported. So it's safe to use the source maps
plugin. So let's do it.
So that's ".pipe()", before the sass, ".pipe()"
And we'll also have to use the "gulpif" because sourcemaps will only used in during development we don't have
to do it in production. So "gulpif()",
if !PRODUCTION this time
and the second argument will be "sourcemaps.init()",
all right?
And after the cleanCSS we'll do the other pipe().
And also "gulpif(!PRODUCTION,"
we will do the
"sourcemaps.write()".
So this should work now.
I know that you don't trust me now when I say this should work but let's try it out
I forgot to run the "gulp styles" task again.
So run it and then go back to the folder and open the bundle.css file. And then we've the source map here. So let's see
in the browser.
And if it's not working
sometimes you just need to clear the cache.
So
as you can see here we have the file, the original file, SASS file that this style is included in.
So that's great.
So other improvement we can do.
Let's say you want to compile multiple files, I've just bundle.scss, you can actually
set passing a string here.
You can pass an array. So let's say want to create a styles for the admin, the wp-admin part and create
a new file
call it admin.scss. And let's do the same thing.
And it's my favorite color.
And let's run the styles.
And nothing happens of course because I haven't added the admin file.
So in the array we add another file the admin.scss.
It should work this time.
So in the css we have admin and we have bundle. So it's actually see how to load an admin style sheet
for the admin part and not for the actual theme frontend. So let's go back to the enqueue-assets. And we'll
do pretty much the same thing.
I can actually copy and paste this function. And then instead of "assets" I'm gonna call it "admin_assets".
And change the handle here to "admin-stylesheet" and then the file name admin
.css.
And the action here will be called "admin_enqueue_scripts".
So let's see if this is working.
So I'm gonna go to the wp-admin part of the website. And "admin", "admin". Says, you can see, the style is loaded
and this is trust me that is the admin.css style not the other one. So
I'll just try to refactor a little bit of our gulpfile.
Where is it?
So let's create a new object, call it "paths".
And then the key of styles and then inside it inside the source
which is this one.
So I'm gonna cut it. And the destination which is this one.
You're gonna have just an object to have all the paths in the future will have a lot of
them. Instead of just putting them in the task we'll gonna have them in separate object, much cleaner.
But you know this is just optional.
And so now we just have to add the paths here from the object.
So "paths.styles.src".
And "paths.styles.dest".
Let's make sure we haven't done anything wrong.
And it works.
So not we've,
we still have the wrong asset folder here.
And don't worry, we'll gonna do with it later.
Finally you probably noticed that whenever we change the SASS files you have to run the task
in the command line or in the terminal.
And that doesn't make any sense
when need to, we need this task to run whenever we save the file. Whenever we change the SASS files.
So I'll gonna pass this feature its called watch. So I'm gonna create a new task now. "export const" and I'm gonna call the
task "watch" and then
I'm gonna call a function called gulp.watch(). And the first argument is the the paths to the files that
we want to you know detect that it has changed.
So in our case we need to "src/assets/" and sorry "scss".
And then we type "**/*.scss" and what that means is
any.scss file or subfiles inside the scss directory detected, detect when it's
changed.
The second argument is the task to run when the file is changed. So in our case "styles".
So let's run the watch task now.
Let's run "gulp watch".
And "Starting 'watch' "and it's watching actually. So let's try, so let's try this thing here.
And let's change the bundle.scss file.
And we get a notice when we changed it they started the style task and finished.
So I think that's enough for the styles for now.
Let's move on to the next task.